DOC: adjustments to promotion rule documentation (#49)
seberg/numpy: doc/source/reference/arrays.promotion.rst

Data type promotion in NumPy
****************************

When mixing two different data types NumPy has to find the correct dtype for
the result of the operation.  This step is referred *promotion* or finding
the common dtype.
In most you do not have to know much about the details of promotion since
the promotion step generally ensures that the result of:
1. Combining multiple arrays e.g. with ``np.concatenate``
2. The evaluation of any mathematical operation

will return in a result that either matches its input dtypes or has a higher
precision.
The ``dtype`` of the result can be found using the `result_type` and

> `promote_types` functions for most (but not all) operations.

Author: These seemed like details that may not belong at the top of the document.

If these promotion rules do not apply to some operations, or if `result_type` or `promote_types` don't accurately predict the result types of some operations, these can be explained in more detail later.

  np.int8(2)

Mixing two different dtypes normally produces a result with the dtype of the
higher precision input:

  >>> np.int8(4) + np.int64(8)  # 64 > 8
  np.int64(12)
  >>> np.float32(3) + np.float16(3)  # 32 > 16
  np.float32(6.0)

In typical cases, this does not lead to surprises. However, if you work with
non-default dtypes like unsigned integers and low-precision floats, or if you
mix NumPy integers, NumPy floats, and Python scalars, some
details of NumPy promotion rules may be relevant. Note that these detailed
rules do not always match those of other languages [#hist-reasons]_.

Numerical dtypes come in four "kinds" with a natural hierarchy.

1. unsigned integers (``uint``)
2. signed integers (``int``)
3. float (``float``)
4. complex (``complex``)

> In addition to kind, NumPy dtypes also have an associated precision, specified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to kind, NumPy numerical dtypes also have an associated precision, specified
```
I think I prefer explicitly saying numerical here.

in bits. Together, the kind and precision specify the dtype. For example, a
``uint8`` is an unsigned integer stored using 8 bits.

The result of an operation will always be of an equal or higher kind of any of
the inputs. Furthermore, the result will always have a precision greater than
or equal to those of the inputs. Already, this can lead to some examples which
may be unexpected:

1. When mixing floating point numbers and integers, the precision of the
   integer may force the result to a higher precision floating point. For
   example, the result of an operation involving ``int64`` and ``float16``
   is ``float64``.
2. When mixing unsigned and signed integers with the same precision, the

>    result will have a *higher* precision than either inputs. For instance,
>    the result of an operation involving ``int64`` and ``uint64`` is
>    ``float64``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   result will has *higher* precision than either inputs. Additionally,
   if one of them has 64bit precision already, no higher precision integer
   is available and for example an operation involving ``int64`` and ``uint64``
   gives ``float64``.
```
This got the intention slightly off, I think.  I would love to point out that this is a known caveat and we might consider changing it, but...

that the result of an operation between a Python integer and a NumPy integer
should be a NumPy integer. However, Python integers have arbitrary precision
whereas all NumPy dtypes have fixed precision, so the arbitrary precision
of Python integers cannot be preserved.

More generally, NumPy considers the "kind" of Python scalars, but ignores
their precision when determining the result dtype. This is often convenient.
For instance, when working with arrays of a low precision dtype, it is usually
desirable for simple operations with Python scalars to preserve the dtype.

  >>> arr_float32 = np.array([1, 2.5, 2.1], dtype="float32")
  >>> arr_float32 + 10.0  # undesirable to promote to float64
  array([11. , 12.5, 12.1], dtype=float32)
  >>> arr_int16 = np.array([3, 5, 7], dtype="int16")
  >>> arr_int16 + 10  # undesirable to promote to int64
  array([13, 15, 17], dtype=int16)

In both cases, the result precision is dictated by the NumPy dtype.
Because of this, ``arr_float32 + 3.0`` behaves the same as
``arr_float32 + np.float32(3.0)``, and ``arr_int16 + 10`` behaves as
``arr_int16 + np.int16(10.)``.

As another example, when mixing NumPy integers with a Python ``float``

> or ``complex``, the result always has type ``float64`` or ``complex128``:

Author: This doesn't quite follow from the rule of "NumPy assigns them the "kind" but ignores their actual precision..."

Reviewer: Thanks for this!  Hmm, you are right.  The "kind" boundaries behave special in that way, not sure how to make a note of that well.

Will have a read through tomorrow and probably just adopt everyhing (and just push more changes if I want to tweak something).

Reviewer: I guess you mean the fact that the important "kind" distinction is really more the integer vs inexact types.  Since unsigned/signed and float/complex could also be seen as the same kind but different range of values that can be represented.

But that seems even more complicated to point out, listing unsigned/signed integers as "kinds" makes it a bit easier to use the bit-sized precision...

  Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
  OverflowError: Python int too large to convert to C long
  >>> np.float32(1) + 1e300
  np.float32(inf)

>   ... RuntimeWarning: overflow encountered in cast

Reviewer: Need to figure out how to make the doctest work with warnings... Or maybe just not make this a doc example at all.
